{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2636
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Monaco;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c1\c1;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c99985\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18120\viewh12080\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
  ==========================================================================\
||                                                     					  ||\
|| Project: \cf0 \cb1 Clinical Predictive Modeling of Adverse Outcomes in Childbirth\cf2 \cb3   ||\
||                                                     					  ||\
  ==========================================================================\
\
Author: Krutika Pandit\
Mentor: Dr. David Fenyo\
\
Abstract:\
\pard\pardeftab720\qj\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \cb1 Predictive modeling of medical diagnoses, clinical risks, and adverse outcomes in healthcare is increasingly popular with the goal to reduce patient morbidity and mortality. One such risk during childbirth is high fetal birth weight, or macrosomia, known to be associated with complications such as cesarean section for failure to progress, postpartum hemorrhage, obstetric anal sphincter injuries (OASIS), and shoulder dystocia (SD). In this study, demographic and clinically relevant variables collected from a cohort of women aged 18 to 55 delivering at hospitals in the NYU Langone network from July 2013 to October 2018 (n = 31,580) were used to build and optimize a tree-based supervised machine learning model called XGBoost. The task included the binary classification of deliveries as having either a positive or negative diagnosis of macrosomia. Multiple techniques for data preprocessing and model building were explored. The best performing model with an F1 score of 0.734 was obtained with a balanced dataset, feature selection, and grid search optimization of five hyperparameters. After the search, the hyperparameters were set to the following values to produce the optimal results - maximum depth = 1, learning rate = 0.3, gamma = 0, lambda = 10, minimum child weight = 9, and number of estimators = 70. Maximum depth is the number of steps in the longest path between the root node and the leaf node. The learning rate determines the step size at each iteration while the model optimizes toward its objective. Gamma is the minimum loss reduction required to make a further partition on a leaf node of the tree. Lambda is the L2 regularization (ridge regression) term. Minimum child weight is the minimum sum of the instance weight (hessian) needed in a child. Lastly, the number of estimators is the number of trees in the ensemble and is equivalent to the number of boosting rounds.\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \
Notebooks in the repository are organized by experiment categories in figure 2 of paper.\
\
Github Repo: https://github.com/kap9623/NYU_Thesis}